So far so good, we have established communication between falconOS
mouse and keyboard. But, an operating system does more than this.
what about connecting to internet, playing music, transfering files
over FTP or bluetooth and accessing high end graphics cards?
So, in order to achieve all this we somehow need to establish
communication between these devices which are connected internally
to computer hardware through a PCI bus.

In FalconOS we have implemented a basic interface which simplies this
job a little bit. We have implemented a class in falconOS using which
we can communicate to these devices. Basically FalconOS internally
uses the computer hardware ports to send and recieve signals to PCI bus
to make this possible.

A snapshot is shown here listing all the connected PCI devices, we
got this list using the same PCI interface which we have implemented
in falconOS.


Most of the modern operating systems have the ability to execute more
than one task at a time for example you can play music and run a
word processing software at once. So, we thought of implementing basic
multitasking architecture in falconOS too.

Let's look at a basic example to demonstrate the capability of falconOS
in multitasking.

..........
..........
..........

So, how is this all happening. Behind the scene falconOS scheules
multiple tasks on each clock interrput using a round robin scheduler

Lets consider a case to have a clear grasp of all this... Suppose
task A is initially executing and now a clock interrupt occurs, so
round robbin scheduler will get triggered, and it gets the next
scheduled task, let' say this task is task B. So falconOS will save
the current state of task A in it's process stack and makes a
context switch to task B by loading the CPU registers with the state
of task B. and on the next interrput same things happens and a new
task gets scheduled. So, by this we have the ability to switch between
taks and execute then in a multitasking way.

Most of the programs require memeory at run time. falconOS provides
dynamic memory allocation scheme. we have implemented malloc and free
functions and new delete operator to dynamically allcate memory resouces.

behind the scenes we have mapped the RAM to a doubly linked list
structure to allocate memory resouces as per the need.
Each node of this doubly linked list keeps tarck of the allocated
space this node have and a pointer to it's previous and next node.
on a malloc call this DMA interface returns the address of next
avaiable sufficient memory space to user and on a free function call
this DMA interface marks the specified memory address range as
unallocated thereby freeing the space.

So, Modern operating system provies Graphical user interface. therefore
we also implemented a basic 320 x 200 low resolution 8 bit color
channel graphics mode in falconOS.
We are utilising the internal Video Graphics Array (VGA Memory) to
achieve all this. We are writing the pixel data into this VGA memory
which finally gets rendered on the screen by the VGA hardware with the
help of sequencer port.

So, far in graphics falconOS has a basic gui library implementaion
that is libGUI. LibGUI can draw any type of shape using polygon rendering
technique. LibGUI can also draw rectangles, lines and pixel drawings.
It's has a robust design and is eaisly integrable when we switch to
high graphics resolution in future.

So, that's all we have for now. But there is a long road ahead
in this project. Currently we have segmentation based memory scheme.
We can chnage this to Paging to have more flexibility over memory
resources.
We can add file system support for FAT-32, NTFS, ext2, ext3 and ext4 in
future by adding support to ATA (Adavance technology attachment)
and SATA.
we can enhance falcon graphics system by integrating nvidia,
intel UHD graphics support.
And there is much more we can do in this.

So Thats all for now.

Thank You!

Any Questions?
